---
abstract: |
    **This report explains the architecture and Saluki's idea for checking
    taint-style (data dependent) security properties in a binary code.
    Saluki is a new tool which is capable of finding a large number of
    CWS[^1] vulnerabilities in real programs. Saluki uses a mixture of
    static and dynamic taint analysis to follow data dependent facts. Saluki
    is proved to be capable of finding vulnerabilities in COTS[^2] including
    0-days.**
author:
- |
    Jacek Janczura\
    404975, Software Engineering of Embedded Systems, Technische Universit√§t
    Berlin, janczura.jacek\@gmail.com
bibliography: 'sample.bib'
csl: 'ieee.csl'
title: |
    **Report on Saluki: Finding Taint-style Vulnerabilities with Static
    Property Checking**
---

# Report on Saluki: Finding Taint-style Vulnerabilities with Static Property Checking
Author: Jacek Janczura

Abstract
============

**This report explains the architecture and Saluki's idea for checking
    taint-style (data dependent) security properties in a binary code.
    Saluki is a new tool which is capable of finding a large number of
    CWS[^1] vulnerabilities in real programs. Saluki uses a mixture of
    static and dynamic taint analysis to follow data dependent facts. Saluki
    is proved to be capable of finding vulnerabilities in COTS[^2] including
    0-days.**

INTRODUCTION
============

Recently vendors continue to ship vulnerable programs. Unfortunately to
protect their \"know how\" and intellectual property, source code is not
shipped. That is a big issue because analysis of binaries is far more
complicated. To protect the privacy and security of the users and to
analyse/check the binaries shipped by the vendors, some new tools and
techniques for finding vulnerabilities in COTS need to be introduced.
[@saluki]

Theoretical introduction
========================

To understand steps of execution and Saluki's internal architecture
following introduction needs to be done.

Control Flow Graph - CFG
------------------------

Representation, using graph notation, of all paths that might be
traversed through a program during its execution including all the
jumps, all the reads from the registers is called Control Flow Graph
(Fig. [1](#fig:CFG){reference-type="ref" reference="fig:CFG"}). CFG
shows all of the possible states of the program execution and the
possible paths to achieve that state.

![Sample Control Flow Graph [@a3] []{label="fig:CFG"}](Report/images/CFG.png){#fig:CFG
width="25%"}

Approximation
-------------

In Fig. [2](#fig:approximation){reference-type="ref"
reference="fig:approximation"} set of all possible states that can be
achieved by the program during its execution is assigned with letter A.
To cover that state all the possible inputs needs to be supplied to the
program which will result in all of the possible states in the output.
Unfortunately supplying all of the possible inputs is not possible which
is the reason for using the approximation.

Under Approximation
-------------------

Under approximation means that we supply only the part of the possible
states during the execution of the program. In that case we can not
cover all of the possible inputs but only the subset of it. It results
in the subset of all the possible outputs. Under approximation in Fig.
[2](#fig:approximation){reference-type="ref"
reference="fig:approximation"} is assigned with UA and is a subset of A.
[@a4]

Over Approximation
------------------

Over approximation in case of achieving the CFG states, means that the
set of the states in over approximation is bigger than the set of the
all possible states that can be achieved by the program in CFB. Over
approximation in Fig. [2](#fig:approximation){reference-type="ref"
reference="fig:approximation"} is assigned with OA and A is a subset of
OA. [@a4]

![Visualisation of over and under approximation [@a3]
[]{label="fig:approximation"}](Report/images/approximation.png){#fig:approximation
width="80%"}

Mixed Approximation
-------------------

Mixed approximation is a subset of the states that are reachable by the
program and the states that are not possible to be reached in CFG.

Taint-style Vulnerabilities
===========================

The term taint-style vulnerabilities has its roots in taint analysis, a
technique for tracing the propagation of data through a program. One
goal of taint analysis is to identify data flows from
attacker-controlled sources to security-sensitive sinks that do not
undergo sanitization.[@a5] [@a6]

Taint analysis can be used for example to check if the data received to
a socket by the function $receive()$ and saved in some buffer does not
leak. It means that it is not sent away by the function $send()$.

In an example shown in a Fig. [3](#fig:taint){reference-type="ref"
reference="fig:taint"} functions and buffers that cannot be dependent
one to another need to be specified. Data saved by $receive(*buf_a)$ can
not be send away by $send(*buf_b)$.\
Taint analysis is divided into three steps:\

-   **Seeding** - during seeding all the $receive()$ functions need to
    be find in the CFG. Than the memory cells where the received data is
    saved need to be tainted. Each tainted memory cell has its index
    number for tracing the leakage path and taint flag. Taint flag
    informs if that specify memorycell has been already tainted or not.\

-   **Propagation** - taint propagation resemble spreading of a virus.
    In propagation step all the paths in CFG from $receive(*buf_a)$ to
    $send(*buf_b)$are traversed and each memory cell is tainted.\

-   **Checking** - during checking each one of the memory cells in
    $buf_b$ is checked for the taint. Presence of the taint in $buf_b$
    means that received data may be leaked away\

![Visualisation of taint
analysis[]{label="fig:taint"}](Report/images/Taint.png){#fig:taint width="90%"}

Dynamic taint-style analysis
----------------------------

Dynamic taint-style analysis is the analysis done during the run time.
Program is run and a few possible inputs are supplied. After that,
tainted data triggered by the program at the run time, is followed.
Dynamic taint-style analysis is an example of under approximation
because all of the states are reached during the runtime of the program
- are part of CFG. [@a6][@a7]

-   Pros:

    -   It is fast

    -   No false positive

-   Cons:

    -   Detect only bugs triggered by an executed path at the run time

    -   Always starts at the entry point

Static taint-style analysis
---------------------------

Static taint-style analysis is an example of over approximation. Static
analysis in contrary to the dynamic is not done during the run time. Due
to the large number of an external unreachable by the program in the run
time states in the static analysis we observe a large number o false
positives. On the other hand all the states reachable by the program are
the subset of the states reached by static analysis. It means that among
many false positives, all of the possible bugs will be caught.
[@a5][@a6]

-   Pros:

    -   Detects all of the bugs

-   Cons:

    -   Many false positives

    -   Takes a long time

Saluki Architecture
===================

In contrary to a static and a dynamic taint-analysis Saluki creators
came up with a new and novel approach. Instead of under approximating
the states in a run time or statically slowly over approximating all the
possible and and impossible states, in case of Saluki random parts of
code are executed.

In a seeding part all instructions and policies that a user wants to
check are being found in a control flow graph and tainted. Than in a
propagation part, plugin called $\mu$flux executes random parts of the
CFG supplying the random input and goes down the graph.

Saluki does not need to start every time from the beginning.
Additionally randomisation of an execution point, lets Saluki go deeper
into the CFG than during a normal dynamic analysis. On the other hand
randomisation of the input makes Saluki to achieve a normally
unreachable states like in over approximation. That is why the states
approximation of Saluki is the mixed one.\
Saluki's execution can be divided into five steps. Its overall
architecture is shown in a Fig. [4](#fig:saluki){reference-type="ref"
reference="fig:saluki"}. [@saluki] :

1.  Load in the specification.

2.  Parse the binary into an intermediate representation (IR[^3])
    suitable for analysis.

3.  Run $\mu$flux[^4] to collect data flow facts about executions from
    every specified source.

4.  Run a solver over the policies, program, and collected facts. The
    solver determines whether the property holds or not.

5.  Saluki outputs example paths where the property does not hold. The
    actual output is not a full path, but instead a condensed form of
    the tainted instructions and a flow ID.

![Saluki Architecture
[@saluki][]{label="fig:saluki"}](Report/images/saluki.png){#fig:saluki width="85%"}

*Specification:* The first step of running the Saluki is loading the
vulnerabilities specification. Saluki has already implemented a database
- CWE[^5] with dozens of vulnerabilities. Additionally user can load
customised, user-defined policies using the Saluki's language.\

``` {#saluki-code label="saluki-code" caption="Command injection example"}
    prop recv_to_system ::=
    recv(_,*buf,_,_), system(*cmd) |- never
    s.t. cmd/buf
```

In the Listing 1, there is shown a policy in Saluki language for finding
a command injection.

Command injection vulnerabilities arise when input flows from an input
source to a sink function that executes code.

In this case system should never use data from recv (data received from
the socket). Otherwise we can assume that a command in a system shell
was executed - system used data from the socket.

The only limitation is that Saluki does not specifically reason about
memory corruption vulnerabilities such as buffer overflows.

*Binary processing:* The binary is loaded to the Saluki. Than Saluki
runs a BAP[^6] (BinaryAnalysisPlatform) an open-source plugin-based
binary analysis framework. BAP converts binary code into control flow
graph - intermediate representation.[@a8]

*Taint Seeding:* Saluki analyzes the specification for variables used in
constraints. Each constraint variable is linked to a program location,
which is then marked in the IR as a taint seed. In our running example,
cmd is a constraint variable used in recv, causing Saluki to identify
the proper memory location corresponding to the cmd argument in all
terms named recv. As is customary, Saluki uses unique identifiers to
identify each taint seed.[@saluki]

*$\mu$flux:* $\mu$flux is implemented as a custom interpreter that runs
random parts of CFG and propagates the taint across the memory.
$\mu$flux start taint propagation from the instructions picked from
specification and marked during the seeding. Than it executes parts of
CFG randomly. $\mu$flux explore the paths regardless of the branch
predicate and ignore context of data.

$\mu$flux stops execution when:

-   Pre-defined max. instructions number was excited

-   Saluki call dynamically linked external function

-   Saluki hits a jump with an indirect target

*The Saluki Solver:* In this step Saluki starts to follow the taint and
tries to prove all properties specified in a policy. Saluki is
constructive: it does not just say there is a violation, but gives the
specific path and data dependencies used to show the property can be
violated

Results and tests
=================

Saluki research group tested Saluki on many binaries and try to check it
performance. They found two binaries where srand seed was time
dependent, 6 new zero-days bugs in 5 COTS products, what is more they
have found using Saluki Heartbleed in OpenSSL. Unfortunately in the same
library Saluki showed 4 false positive alerts. In Lighthttp Saluki
research tteam found sommand injection to system, buffer overflow due to
wrong usage of strcpy. Apart from OpenSSL and Lighthttp they found 3 SQL
injections in some COTOS products and many more.

This experiments shows that Saluki may be useful but user needs to be
aware that a false-positives may occur and check every alert.

Conclusions
===========

Saluki is not sound nor complete. The main advantage of it is that in
comparison to other tools used to find vulnerabilities it's fast.
Unfortunately the authors of Saluki did not benchmark it against other
tools which I think is a big drawback of the paper.

[^1]: CWS- Common Weakness Enumeration - list of software weakness types
    [@a2]

[^2]: COTS - Commercial off-the-shelf - products are packaged solutions
    which are then adapted to satisfy the needs of the purchasing
    organization [@a1]

[^3]: Creating IR can be simplified for better understanding to creating
    a control flow graph of whole binary

[^4]: $\mu$flux works as a taint propagation

[^5]: CWE - community-developed list of common software security
    weaknesses

[^6]: BAP - BinaryAnalysisPlatform -
    https://github.com/BinaryAnalysisPlatform/
